CS131 - Artificial Intelligence

Genetic Algorithms - Homework 3

Notes on the Success:
The program takes an input number as for the number of indiviuals in first generation.
The best in initial population is any number around 200 people because the algorithm's
output converges around that initial population. After running the program on 200 individuals,
for many times, the program outputted an individual with a fitness value of 43 or 44 and this 
combination of items in the backpack had an exact weight of 250.


Overview:

Chromosome/Genome:
An array of size 12 represents an individual. Each slot in the array has either 1 or 0 for each
item in the backpack. 1 implies that the corresponding individual in the array exists and 0
implies that is absent.

Fitness Value:
The fitness values of individuals are calculated based on two criteria. If the total weight of 
the items in a combination/indiviual is equal to or belo 250, the fitness value is sum of the 
importance values of items in the backpack. If the total weight is above 250, a penalty is applied
because any combination of items/individual with a total weight hiogher than 250 is not desired.

First Generation:
The program initially creates a population that consists of with random individuals. Each individual
is created based on a randomly populating the slot of an array with size 12 with either 0 or 1. The number of individuals in the first generation is determined based on the number that user enter in the terminal.

New Generations with Evolution:
Pairs of individuals are seleted from the population. These pairs undergo cross-over on a random point in the
chromosome. Then, each individual undergo mutation based on a probability of 0.5 on a random slot in their 
chromosome (that slot becomes 0 if 1 and vice versa). The individual with the best fitness value in the past 
generation is added to the current generation (which is an elitist approach) to speed up the algotihm. Finally,
the generation is cut in half and the half with worse fitness values eliminated.

Termination:
The evolution happens untill either 1 individual is left in the population or the evolution repeats over 30
times. When either one of these conditions are met, the individual with the best fitness value is returned.







